The neighbor heard a gun shot at 5:36 PM. At 7pm, defendant gets home to see his girlfriend dead in the kitchen. He calls 911. The police do thorough investigation which results in the defendant's arrest. The defendant is so distraught with his dead girlfriend and being arrested for it that he kicks and screams and accidentally breaks a police officer's nose.

The defendant has two charges: First degree murder and assaulting a police officer.

The only motive provided by the prosecution is that his girlfriend had recently inherited a large amount of money. He wouldn't have actually gotten that money since they weren't married, but the prosecution went to great lengths to convince the jury that the defendant *thought* he would have. She had a will. Maybe he assumed he was the primary benefactor?

The evidence is that the shotgun used to kill the girlfriend has the defendant's prints on the trigger and handle. The defendant claimed that the gun belonged to him and that is why his prints were on it, but he had no record of purchase. Additionally, a seller at a gun show claims he saw the defendant at his gun show just two days earlier. The defendant claims he was not there.

The defendant's alibi was that he stayed late at work to finish a big project. He told the police that his coworker may corroborate his story. However, the coworker testified that he did not recall seeing the defendant at work that late. The coworker is not exactly an unimpeachable witness and in fact had good reason to want to get back at the defendant.

As for assaulting the police officer, it becomes clear that the defendant would have been in cuffs by the time he would have thrown the punch. And the amount of damage on the officer's face (combined with the scrawniness of the defendant) couldn't have been caused by a man in cuffs.

Questions to bring up:
    Is the defendant dumb enough to think that the inheritance would have transferred to him? This is his only identifiable motive.
    Should the coworker's testimony be thrown out?
    Is there reason to believe someone else could have handled the shotgun?
    Could the officer be lying about the assault charge? How could the defendant have punched him if he was already in cuffs?
    Can we excuse the assault charge with jury nullification?

